# IAM Roles and the Employee Directory Application

Throughout the demos, you’ll notice that the Amazon EC2 instance is using an IAM role to manage access to AWS APIs for the employee directory application application. This is a common way to provide AWS credentials to applications that need to access AWS APIs. This IAM role is providing temporary credentials that are rotated automatically via the instance profile for the EC2 instance. The AWS SDK is automatically pulling these credentials and refreshing them as needed and using the credentials to authenticate the AWS API calls being made to Amazon S3 and Amazon DynamoDB by the code for the employee directory app. Without this role, the application would not be authenticated and the API calls to those services would fail.

In the video **Demo AWS IAM** you saw Morgan create an IAM role called EmployeeWebApp which used the managed policies AmazonS3FullAccess and AmazonDynamoDBFullAccess. Later in the **Hosting the Employee Directory Application on AWS** video and subsequent demos you may see an IAM role named S3DynamoDBFullAccessRole being used when configuring the EC2 instance. Both of these roles use the same policies Morgan selected in the Demo AWS IAM role.

The next video in this course demonstrates how to host the employee directory application on AWS using services like Amazon EC2 and Amazon VPC. While watching this video, you may be looking for a copy of the scripts used so you can follow along. The exercises in next weeks content includes step by step instructions on how to launch the employee direction application, including the user data script. For this next video, we recommend that you watch without following along yet so you can understand the AWS services at a high level, then next week you will have the opportunity to walk through this demonstration in your AWS account using the instructions included in the exercises.

If at any point, you are unsure of how roles work or how to properly set up an IAM role, please refer back to the **Demo AWS IAM** video.

If you would like to learn more about how EC2 uses IAM, check out [IAM roles for Amazon EC2.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-roles-for-amazon-ec2.html)
