# Welcome to the Course

Welcome to Architecting Solutions on AWS, which is the second of four courses in the AWS Cloud Solutions Architect Professional Certificate. This course will help prepare you to begin your career architecting solutions on AWS. Through a series of use case scenarios and practical learning, you will learn how to identify services and features so that you can build resilient, secure, and highly available IT solutions in the AWS Cloud. Each week, a fictional customer will present a different business need. The instructors will then review the options, choose the best services for the use case, and walk you through the architectural design on a whiteboard. First, you will learn about building event-driven architectures with a focus on performance efficiency and cost. You will also learn about how to architect a solution by using many purpose-built AWS services. With this knowledge, you will gain a deeper understanding of hybrid architectures with a focus on reliability and operational efficiency. Finally, you will wrap up your learning by understanding how to build a multi-account strategy that is centered around security and cost. Each course of the AWS Cloud Solutions Architect Professional Certificate is broken down into weeks. Remember that you can complete courses at your own pace, but the weekly breakdowns are designed to help you finish the program in about 6 months.

**Week 1: Designing a serverless web backend on AWS** The first week in this course follows a customer use case where an ecommerce company needs to migrate a backend web service to AWS. You will first hear from the customer about their requirements and the problems that they are trying to solve with this migration. Then, you will learn how to design the solution for this use case, step by step, by using services such as Amazon API Gateway, AWS Lambda, Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS), Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS), and Amazon DynamoDB.

**Week 2: Designing a serverless data analytics solution on AWS** The second week in this course follows a customer use case where a software company needs a data analytics solution in AWS so that they can derive insights from clickstream data. You will first hear from the customer about their requirements and the problems that they are trying to solve with this solution. Then, you will learn how to design the solution for this use case, step by step, by using services such as Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, Amazon Athena, Amazon QuickSight, and more.

**Week 3: Designing a hybrid solution for container based workloads on AWS** The third week in this course follows a customer use case where an enterprise insurance company needs to migrate some of their container workloads to AWS by using a hybrid model. You will first hear from the customer about their requirements and the problems that they are trying to solve with this migration. Then, you will learn how to design the solution for this use case, step by step, by using services such as AWS Direct Connect, Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS), Amazon ECS Anywhere, Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS), AWS Systems Manager, and more.

**Week 4: Designing a solution following account governance and management best practices** The fourth week in this course follows a customer use case where a startup company needs guidance about how to set up an account-management strategy that follows best practices for account governance and standards. You will first hear from the customer about their requirements and the problems that they are trying to solve with this strategy. Then, you will learn how to design the solution for this use case, step by step, by using services such as AWS Organizations, AWS IAM Identity Center (successor to AWS Single Sign-On), AWS CloudTrail, and more.

Happy Learning!

Morgan & Raf
